---
title: "Research Interest"
bg: orange
color: black
fa-icon: toggle-on
---

##Advanced Materials


The realization of new materials is crucial to develop new technologies that are more effective and efficient than their conventional counterparts. The Claussen lab develops new materials including vertically aligned carbon nanotube arrays, multi-layered graphene petals, metallic nanowire arrays, quantum dot bioconjugates, DNA/fluorescent dye scaffolds, and nanostructured cellulose with precise control over morphology, structure, and composition on the nanoscale. Particular lab expertise is depositing noble metal nanoparticles onto carbon based surfaces including current pulse electrodeposition of platinum nanoparticles on carbon nanotubes and multilayered graphene as well as phase synthesis of single-crystal platinum nanowires on cellulose. Such nanostructured surfaces are highly electroactive and well suited-for electrochemical biosensing and catalysis. The laboratory will continue the development of these nanomaterials in order to improve the performance of biosensors and theranostic devices.


##Nanostructured Biosensors & Biological / Biomedical Microelectromechanical (Bio-MEMs) Systems

The current state-of-the art in biosensor/bio-MEMs technology provides a paradigm shift for medical diagnostics and environmental monitoring. In lieu of sending out test samples to laboratories for analysis, healthcare providers could potentially use electrochemical or optical biosensors/bio-MEMs to test patients at point-of-care facilities, thus diminishing analysis time from days to minutes—time desperately needed in medical emergencies such as diagnosing a viral infection in an elderly immune-compromised patient or pinpointing biological warfare agents from an exposed solider. By condensing a modern chemistry laboratory onto a micro-sized device, diagnostic testing in remote or resource-poor locations is also made possible. 

With regards to biosensor/Bio-MEMs design, The Claussen Lab will be primarily focused on the biorecognition/signal transduction interface. Nanofabrication/microfabrication techniques such as thin film physical vapor deposition, lithographic patterning, reactive-ion etching, carbon nanomaterial chemical vapor deposition, noble metal electrodeposition, and quantum dot synthesis/biofunctionalization will be used to provide precise mechanical and electrical contact with biorecognition agents (e.g., enzymes, single-stranded DNA, antibodies). The interplay between mass transport, biological kinetics, and charge transport through analytical/numerical modeling and experimental testing will be used to optimize device design while reducing fabrication iterations. New biocompatible materials (e.g., electroactive, biocompatible polymer coatings) will be developed to address biofouling and interference caused by endogenous species found within actual biological samples. Microfluidic channels, porous membranes, and other sample delivery mechanisms will be incorporated around the bionanostructured interfaces to complete the biosensor/bio-MEMs design. 


##Theranostic Devices


Nanoscale platforms are uniquely positioned to diagnosis disease, ferry therapeutic cargo loads, and deliver these loads to precise locations within the body. These materials are inherently well-suited for theranostic functions as their surface chemistries are amenable to loading pharmaceutics while their small size permits their use as imaging agents (e.g., quantum dots) due to quantum mechanical properties. In, The Claussen Lab we develop self-propelled, smart nanoparticles/nanobioconjugates that are capable of penetrating cells/tissues, detecting a disease state, and delivering appropriate therapeutic agents. These theranostic devices will be uploaded near or into cells/tissues and then interrogated by ultrasound or light. Smart sensing materials capable of performing complex Boolean logic functions will be employed to assist in multiplexed biosensing and subsequent drug delivery.  

